Sl. No.	Topic	Complete Program Statement / Use Case
1	Basic Inheritance	Write a Java program to implement basic inheritance using a Vehicle and Car class. Create common properties/behaviors in the Vehicle class and inherit them in the Car class.
    Demonstrate how the child class can access the features of the parent class.
2	Single Inheritance	Write a Java program to demonstrate single inheritance using an Animal and Dog class.
    Define common behavior such as eat() in the Animal class and specific behavior such as bark() in the Dog class.
3	Multilevel Inheritance	Write a Java program to implement multilevel inheritance for an animal classification system. 
    Create classes Animal, Mammal, and Dog, where each class inherits from the previous class. Demonstrate how Dog can access methods from both parent classes.
4	Hierarchical Inheritance	Write a Java program to implement hierarchical inheritance for different types of animals. 
    Create a parent class Animal and derive Dog and Cat from it. Demonstrate common functionality inherited by both child classes along with their specific behaviors.
5	Constructor in Inheritance	Write a Java program to demonstrate constructor execution in inheritance. 
    Create a parent class and a child class, define constructors in both classes, and demonstrate the order in which the parent and child constructors are executed when a child object is created.
6	super Keyword	Write a Java program to demonstrate the use of the super keyword in inheritance. 
    Create parent and child classes having variables and methods with the same name. Use super to access the parent class variable and method from the child class.
7	Method Overloading	Write a Java program to implement method overloading for a Calculator application. 
    Create multiple add() methods that accept different numbers or types of parameters and demonstrate compile-time polymorphism.
8	Constructor Overloading	Write a Java program to implement constructor overloading for a Student Management System.
    Create multiple constructors to initialize student objects using different combinations of student ID and name.
9	Method Overriding	Write a Java program to demonstrate method overriding using an Animal, Dog, and Cat class. 
    Define a sound() method in the parent class and override it in the child classes to provide different implementations.
10	Runtime Polymorphism	Write a Java program to demonstrate runtime polymorphism using an Animal reference. 
    Create Dog and Cat classes that override the sound() method and use a parent-class reference to invoke the appropriate child-class method at runtime.
11	Abstract Class	Write a Java program to implement an abstract class for calculating the area of geometric shapes. 
    Create an abstract class Shape with an abstract calculateArea() method and implement it in a Circle class.
12	Abstract Class + Inheritance	Write a Java program to implement an employee management system using an abstract class. 
    Create an abstract Employee class with an abstract work() method and derive Manager and Developer classes that provide their own implementations.
13	Abstract Class + Polymorphism	Write a Java program to calculate the area of different geometric shapes using an abstract class and runtime polymorphism. 
    Create Shape, Circle, and Rectangle classes and use a Shape reference to calculate the appropriate area.
14	Basic Interface	Write a Java program to implement an interface for calculating the area of a shape. 
    Create a Shape interface containing an area() method and implement it in the Circle class.
15	Multiple Interfaces	Write a Java program to demonstrate multiple interface implementation using a multimedia device. 
    Create Printable and Showable interfaces and implement both interfaces in a single Demo class.
16	Interface + Inheritance	Write a Java program to demonstrate the use of an interface along with class inheritance in a transportation system. 
    Create a Vehicle parent class and a Fare interface, then create a Bus class that extends Vehicle and implements Fare.
17	Default Method in Interface	Write a Java program to demonstrate the use of a default method in an interface. 
    Create a Fare interface containing a default fareInfo() method and implement the interface in a Bus class without overriding the default method.
18	Multiple Inheritance through Interfaces	Write a Java program to implement multiple inheritance using interfaces for a smartphone. 
    Create Camera and MusicPlayer interfaces and implement both interfaces in a Smartphone class.
19	Interface-Based Polymorphism	Write a Java program to demonstrate runtime polymorphism using an interface. 
    Create a Shape interface and implement it in Circle and Rectangle classes. Use a Shape reference to invoke the appropriate draw() method.
20	Complete Inheritance & Polymorphism	Write a Java program to develop an Employee Management System demonstrating inheritance and polymorphism. 
    Use an abstract Employee class, Manager and Developer subclasses, and a Payable interface. Demonstrate constructor inheritance, method overriding, interface implementation, and runtime polymorphism.